README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <br>
  <img width="400" src="./awesome-cardano-logo-no-umbrella.svg" alt="logo of awesome-cardano repository">
  <br>
  <br>
</p>

# Awesome Cardano [![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg)](https://awesome.re)

> A curated list of awesome things related to the Cardano project

## Contents

- [Resources](#resources)
    - [Official Resources](#official-resources)
    - [External Resources](#external-resources)
    - [Community](#community)
        - [Community Github Projects](#community-github-projects)
        - [Community Built Resources](#community-built-resources)
        - [Community Social](#community-social)
        - [Community News & Commentary](#community-news-&-commentary)
- [ADA Exchanges](#exchanges)
- [Staking Pools](#list-of-staking-pools)

# Resources

### Official Resources

#### Cardano
- [Official Website](https://www.cardano.org/)
- [Official Roadmap](https://cardanoroadmap.com/)
- [Official Wallet](https://daedaluswallet.io/) [(Download)](https://daedaluswallet.io/#download)
- [Official Blockchain Explorer](https://cardanoexplorer.com/)
- [Official Whitepaper - Philosophy](https://whycardano.com/) [(Download PDF)](https://whycardano.com/assets/WhyCardanoEN.pdf)
- [Official Whitepaper - Academic Research](https://www.cardanohub.org/en/academic-papers/)
- [Official Documentation](https://cardanodocs.com/)
- [Official GitHub Repo](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-sl)
- [Official Help Center](https://help.cardano.org/)
- [Official Charles Hoskinson Blog](https://hoskinsoncharles.blogspot.com)
- [Official Forum](https://forum.cardano.org/)
- [Official Twitter](https://twitter.com/cardanocom/)
- [Official SubReddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/cardano/)
- [Official Chat](https://chat.cardano.org/)

#### Cardano Foundation
Core Mission: "standardise, protect and promote" the Cardano Protocol.
- [Official Website](https://cardanofoundation.org/)
- [Official Youtube Channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCbQ9vGfezru1YRI1zDCtTGg)
- [Official Twitter](https://twitter.com/CardanoStiftung)
- [Official Telegram](https://t.me/CardanoAnnouncements)

#### IOHK
- [Official Website](https://iohk.io/)
- [Official Team](https://iohk.io/team/)
- [Official Testnet Website (KEVM & IELE)](https://testnet.iohkdev.io/goguen/)
- [Official Cardano Rust Project](https://cardanorust.iohkdev.io)
- [Official Academic Papers](https://iohk.io/research/papers/)
- [Official Blog](https://iohk.io/blog/)
- [Official GitHub](https://github.com/input-output-hk/)
- [Official Youtube Channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCBJ0p9aCW-W82TwNM-z3V2w)

#### Emurgo
- [Official Website](https://emurgo.io/)
- [Official Yoroi Web Light Wallet](https://yoroi-wallet.com/)
- [Official Twitter](https://twitter.com/emurgo_io)
- [Official Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/emurgo.io/)

### External Resources
- [Stack Exchange](https://area51.stackexchange.com/proposals/118211/cardano)
- [Cardano Wiki](https://cardanowiki.info)

### Community Social
- [Discord: Cardano Community](https://discordapp.com/channels/386191477333557248/386223132496887808)
- [Telegram: Cardano Announcements](https://t.me/CardanoAnnouncements)
- [Telegram: Cardano Community](https://t.me/cardano)
- [Telegram: Cardano Community Tech Support](https://t.me/CardanoCommunityTechSupport)
- [Telegram: Cardano Developers](https://t.me/CardanoDevelopersOfficial)
- [Telegram: Cardano Stake Pool Workgroup](https://t.me/CardanoStakePoolWorkgroup)
- [Telegram: Cardano Stake Pools](https://t.me/CardanoStakePools)
- [Telegram: Cardano General](https://t.me/CardanoGeneral)
- [Telegram: Cardano Trading](https://t.me/CardanoTradingOfficial)
- [SubReddit: ADApool](https://www.reddit.com/r/ADApool/)
- [SubReddit: CardanoCoin](https://www.reddit.com/r/CardanoCoin/)

### Community Github Projects
- [Cardano Monitor](https://github.com/Quantumplation/cardano-monitor)
- [Cardano SL Alpine](https://github.com/sharkspeed/cardano-sl-alpine)
- [Cardano Daedalus Docker](https://github.com/hcvst/cardano-daedalus-docker)

### Community Built Resources
- [How To Buy ADA](https://buyada.com/) - In depth guide to buying Cardano's ADA.
- [Ada Calculator](https://adacalculator.com/) - Staking calculator and live price feed
- [ADA Tracker](https://adatracker.com/)
- [ADA Check](https://adacheck.io/)
- [Cardano Updates](https://cardanoupdates.com/) - Displays github commits
- [How Much Is My ADA Worth](https://howmuchismyadaworth.com/)
- [Cardano Projects](https://cardanoprojects.com)

### Community News & Commentary
- [Let's Talk Cardano - Podcast](https://itunes.apple.com/us/podcast/lets-talk-cardano/id1329422620?mt=2)
- [Sebastien Guillemot Youtube Channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCdMyiIdAqr6lVX7tTCfhHFA) - Making the complex, accessible in an insightful way.
- [](https://m.ada.st/about)

### Exchanges
- [Official Buy & Sell ADA](https://www.cardano.org/en/buy-sell-ada/)
- [Binance](https://www.binance.com/?ref=12808937)
- [Bithumb](https://www.bithumb.com/)
- [Bittrex](https://bittrex.com/)
- [BitMEX](https://www.bitmex.com/) - Futures market of BTC/ADA
- [Coinmama](https://www.coinmama.com)
- [Cryptopia](https://www.cryptopia.co.nz/)
- [Gate.io](https://gate.io)
- [HitBTC](https://hitbtc.com/)
- [Huobi](https://www.huobi.pro/)
- [Kraken](https://www.kraken.com)
- [UPBit](https://upbit.com/)

### List of Staking Pools
- [Cardano Wiki's List](https://cardanowiki.info/wiki/List_of_staking_pools)
- [Cardano Forum's List](https://forum.cardano.org/t/list-of-cardano-ada-staking-pools/7595)
- [AdaStaking.com Pool](https://adastaking.com/)

### TODO: Needs Organising:
- [ADA.in.th](https://sites.google.com/view/ada-in-th/home)
- [Ada.st](https://www.ada.st/)

Commit message:

Add Cardano Pool Tool to the list of Staking Pools
Repo: https://github.com/papacarp/pooltool.io

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <br>
  <img width="400" src="./awesome-cardano-logo-no-umbrella.svg" alt="logo of awesome-cardano repository">
  <br>
  <br>
</p>

# Awesome Cardano [![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg)](https://awesome.re)

> A curated list of awesome things related to the Cardano project

## Contents

- [Resources](#resources)
    - [Official Resources](#official-resources)
    - [External Resources](#external-resources)
    - [Community](#community)
        - [Community Github Projects](#community-github-projects)
        - [Community Built Resources](#community-built-resources)
        - [Community Social](#community-social)
        - [Community News & Commentary](#community-news-&-commentary)
- [ADA Exchanges](#exchanges)
- [Staking Pools](#list-of-staking-pools)

# Resources

### Official Resources

#### Cardano
- [Official Website](https://www.cardano.org/)
- [Official Roadmap](https://cardanoroadmap.com/)
- [Official Wallet](https://daedaluswallet.io/) [(Download)](https://daedaluswallet.io/#download)
- [Official Blockchain Explorer](https://cardanoexplorer.com/)
- [Official Whitepaper - Philosophy](https://whycardano.com/) [(Download PDF)](https://whycardano.com/assets/WhyCardanoEN.pdf)
- [Official Whitepaper - Academic Research](https://www.cardanohub.org/en/academic-papers/)
- [Official Documentation](https://cardanodocs.com/)
- [Official GitHub Repo](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-sl)
- [Official Help Center](https://help.cardano.org/)
- [Official Charles Hoskinson Blog](https://hoskinsoncharles.blogspot.com)
- [Official Forum](https://forum.cardano.org/)
- [Official Twitter](https://twitter.com/cardanocom/)
- [Official SubReddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/cardano/)
- [Official Chat](https://chat.cardano.org/)

#### Cardano Foundation
Core Mission: "standardise, protect and promote" the Cardano Protocol.
- [Official Website](https://cardanofoundation.org/)
- [Official Youtube Channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCbQ9vGfezru1YRI1zDCtTGg)
- [Official Twitter](https://twitter.com/CardanoStiftung)
- [Official Telegram](https://t.me/CardanoAnnouncements)

#### IOHK
- [Official Website](https://iohk.io/)
- [Official Team](https://iohk.io/team/)
- [Official Testnet Website (KEVM & IELE)](https://testnet.iohkdev.io/goguen/)
- [Official Cardano Rust Project](https://cardanorust.iohkdev.io)
- [Official Academic Papers](https://iohk.io/research/papers/)
- [Official Blog](https://iohk.io/blog/)
- [Official GitHub](https://github.com/input-output-hk/)
- [Official Youtube Channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCBJ0p9aCW-W82TwNM-z3V2w)

#### Emurgo
- [Official Website](https://emurgo.io/)
- [Official Yoroi Web Light Wallet](https://yoroi-wallet.com/)
- [Official Twitter](https://twitter.com/emurgo_io)
- [Official Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/emurgo.io/)

### External Resources
- [Stack Exchange](https://area51.stackexchange.com/proposals/118211/cardano)
- [Cardano Wiki](https://cardanowiki.info)

### Community Social
- [Discord: Cardano Community](https://discordapp.com/channels/386191477333557248/386223132496887808)
- [Telegram: Cardano Announcements](https://t.me/CardanoAnnouncements)
- [Telegram: Cardano Community](https://t.me/cardano)
- [Telegram: Cardano Community Tech Support](https://t.me/CardanoCommunityTechSupport)
- [Telegram: Cardano Developers](https://t.me/CardanoDevelopersOfficial)
- [Telegram: Cardano Stake Pool Workgroup](https://t.me/CardanoStakePoolWorkgroup)
- [Telegram: Cardano Stake Pools](https://t.me/CardanoStakePools)
- [Telegram: Cardano General](https://t.me/CardanoGeneral)
- [Telegram: Cardano Trading](https://t.me/CardanoTradingOfficial)
- [SubReddit: ADApool](https://www.reddit.com/r/ADApool/)
- [SubReddit: CardanoCoin](https://www.reddit.com/r/CardanoCoin/)

### Community Github Projects
- [Cardano Monitor](https://github.com/Quantumplation/cardano-monitor)
- [Cardano SL Alpine](https://github.com/sharkspeed/cardano-sl-alpine)
- [Cardano Daedalus Docker](https://github.com/hcvst/cardano-daedalus-docker)

### Community Built Resources
- [How To Buy ADA](https://buyada.com/) - In depth guide to buying Cardano's ADA.
- [Ada Calculator](https://adacalculator.com/) - Staking calculator and live price feed
- [ADA Tracker](https://adatracker.com/)
- [ADA Check](https://adacheck.io/)
- [Cardano Updates](https://cardanoupdates.com/) - Displays github commits
- [How Much Is My ADA Worth](https://howmuchismyadaworth.com/)
- [Cardano Projects](https://cardanoprojects.com)

### Community News & Commentary
- [Let's Talk Cardano - Podcast](https://itunes.apple.com/us/podcast/lets-talk-cardano/id1329422620?mt=2)
- [Sebastien Guillemot Youtube Channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCdMyiIdAqr6lVX7tTCfhHFA) - Making the complex, accessible in an insightful way.
- [](https://m.ada.st/about)

### Exchanges
- [Official Buy & Sell ADA](https://www.cardano.org/en/buy-sell-ada/)
- [Binance](https://www.binance.com/?ref=12808937)
- [Bithumb](https://www.bithumb.com/)
- [Bittrex](https://bittrex.com/)
- [BitMEX](https://www.bitmex.com/) - Futures market of BTC/ADA
- [Coinmama](https://www.coinmama.com)
- [Cryptopia](https://www.cryptopia.co.nz/)
- [Gate.io](https://gate.io)
- [HitBTC](https://hitbtc.com/)
- [Huobi](https://www.huobi.pro/)
- [Kraken](https://www.kraken.com)
- [UPBit](https://upbit.com/)

### List of Staking Pools
- [Cardano Wiki's List](https://cardanowiki.info/wiki/List_of_staking_pools)
- [Cardano Forum's List](https://forum.cardano.org/t/list-of-cardano-ada-staking-pools/7595)
- [AdaStaking.com Pool](https://adastaking.com/)
- [Cardano Pool Tool](https://pooltool.io) - online platform built to facilitate the interaction between SPOs and their stakeholders.

### TODO: Needs Organising:
- [ADA.in.th](https://sites.google.com/view/ada-in-th/home)
- [Ada.st](https://www.ada.st/)
